---
layout: post
title: Newest Software Updates
categories: tech
---

## Nov 20, 2020: Noise suppression

![Noise suppression option](/images/posts/noise-suppression.png)

When submitting a song you can now select an option to suppress noise.
This feature identifies the segments of a track that aren't musical
and actively silences those regions.  This feature can automatically
suppress coughs, breaths, and stray microphone bumps.  The final
output ends up being much cleaner.

## Nov 19, 2020: Google drive / folder syncing

I have added smarter and more complete folder syncing.

As part of the song request system, a link to a shared google drive
folder must be included (view only) on the submissions form.  The
server fetches these files locally before it processes them.  This
mechanism avoids the need for logins and account tracking on the
virtual choir server side.

Previously, the server would just pull all existing files from the
shared folder.  However, if a google drive folder is re-purposed (old
contents deleted, new contents uploaded) those old contents could
still be cached on the server.  Then the new tracks would be mixed
with the older tracks creating a gigantic mess!

The obvious expected behavior is for the server side to track any new
files, changed files, or deleted files before processing a new
submission.  This now happens.

So among other things, you can replace or update a track and resubmit
your song request.  You can add or remove tracks and resubmit the
song. You should get the expected results back.

## Nov 18, 2020: Clap sync improvements

Improvements to the clap sync logic: Updated to a smarter and more
robust strategy for finding the lead in space before the first clear
notes.  Sounds in the first or last second of the lead in segment are
ignored (could be pressing the record button or taking a breath for
the first note.)  I also made the the threshold for determining the
first note more dynamic relative to the contents of the sound sample.
All of this should lead to fewer mistakes with syncing from claps.

Note, the system supports any number of claps, but a full measure of
claps tends to be more accurate than a single standalone clap.  Humans
just aren't that accurate when it comes down to sitting in a vacuum by
yourself and nailing a single clap exactly right on.

## Nov 14, 2020: Song names

We now ask for the song name on the request form.  This is optional,
but lets us compose a friendlier result email.

Commas "," in song names actually caused an issue with the Filemail
tool used to return your results.  Commas are fine, but they are
stripped out of any result file names if you ask for individual
aligned tracks.

## Nov 6, 2020: .webm

Add the .webm extension to the list of supported video formats.

## Nov 4, 2020: Processing report

A log of the song processing details is created and returned with your
result.  If something unexpected happened, please read through the
report carefully to see if there are any hints or messages that would
help understand what went wrong.

## Nov 4, 2020: Aligned video tracks

The system can now trim/pad all your raw video tracks so they all start
at the exact same time alignment.  If you plan to do your own creative
video editing, this feature can save you a bunch of time by starting
with all your audio and video tracks pre-aligned.  Import these tracks
into any editing tool and jump straight to the fun parts.

## Oct 30, 2020: Audio mixing

Wow, I found an oversight in the mixing code that could lead to
numerical saturation and result in audible clicks or crackling.  This
should now be completely resolved.
